# How to run project?

You need:
  - maven,
  - java 21,
  - docker and docker compose. Preferably docker desktop

For maven and java management https://sdkman.io/install is a good tool.

Then go to docker/dev folder and run command `docker compose up -d`
after its done you should be able to run. Just enter `BackendApplicaiton` and hit green button.


# DEFAULT TEMPLATE CONFIGURATION
A template to init new projects. Default configuration consists of:

## **Database: (PostgreSQL + MyBatis + Flyway)**

The default database driver is Postgresql. Persistence framework Mybatis. Migration tool is Flyway. All SQL scripts
places in `resources/db/schema` folder will be automatically evaluated during project boot.

To generate SQL script use ready to use script `create-migration.groovy`. Script will automatically create an SQL script
with provided name. Usage:

`mvn groovy:execute@create-migration -Dname="${FILE_NAME}"`

## **Documentation (Swagger + Redoc)**

APID documentation is generated by swagger with overwritten default url to `{basePath}/documentation/swagger-v2`
Redoc (https://github.com/Redocly/redoc) in short is an open-source tool for generating documentation from OpenAPI (fka
Swagger) definitions. It reads swagger documentation using above endpoint and generates preety UI :)
To get UI documentation `{basePath}/api-documentation`

When creating 'transfer objects' or any other type of objects used for expose data through api please use proper
documentation annotations

## Object Validation

To validate consistency Spring validation should be used.

https://spring.io/guides/gs/validating-form-input/

## Object conversion

Mapstruct should be used to convert any object conversions.

https://github.com/mapstruct/mapstruct-examples

## Tests (Spock)

Spock is configured for tests. Tests language is Groovy
